So I'm continuing to go through and pull the legs and, you know, you can do this process I'm about
to share with you.
Towards the end of your edit, technically, you know, you really want to get all your video stuff
done first and your edit and then handle addressing filtering your audio towards the end.
But I'm hearing my voice over and I'm hearing all of what it's missing.
You know, of just like the frequency and the way it's sounding.
I generally have go to solid gold in filters that I always, always add to my voice overs and to any
voice overs for any of the projects that I use that I want to share with you in this lesson.
So where we're going to start with is and I'm sorry to my laptop.
It sounds like the Death Star, like speeding up sounds like a drone a little bit.
So I do apologize for that.
But let's take a listen here for reference of where we're starting with with our voiceover that was
recorded, recorded with a great mike in a great scenario.
So there's no echo, there's no reverb, but it just sounds so bland.
This the sound you're hearing right now.
Actually, if I take out the filters off this sound right now, this is actually the original way this
sounds in this very moment with this microphone.
So when I add it back, it's so much better, right?
I can't stand hearing it without boosting certain sound, certain frequencies, a spectrum.
And that's what we're going to get into.
So rather than me keep talking, let's get into it.
So what I always start with doing is, OK, we want to select our voiceover and here's what it sounds
like.
Splash of color in the background.
This is going to play a little bit more here.
And to kind of show what is going on here, I'm going to put on a what's called a parametric equalizer.
It sounds really fancy, but it's simply just this type of filter that shows you the spectrum of the
frequency.
And that's what I meant by frequency is all the way over here on the left, we have our low end or bass
sounds right.
And then all the way here on the right, we have a high end score.
It's like a high hat.
Right.
And then a bass stumblebum.
That's how it works.
And this is what my voice looks like if it's being analyzed by the frequency.
OK, over here is 40 hertz.
Over here is 18000 hertz.
So if I turn the volume on and we play this twenty eight millimeters, I really feel that.
And if I move up the high end, the high frequencies, this is the best for YouTube, Instagram, any
kind of online content you hear out now has a snappin.
This where it's coming out of the speakers and it's not sounding so.
And here's what it looks like at twenty.
That's it sounds like it's a little bit underwater.
OK.
So what I always do for voice overs is I do always boost the highs.
Now, you can see if I kind of mess with this a little bit, even more of an example of how this filter
is working before.
Mm.
It's OK.
I always feel like it's a little bit too wide.
The shallower you go with the focal length, the more professional it's going to look.
So twenty four is it's a little bit too wide for my taste.
And here's how it looks at thirty five millimeters more depth, the fields more narrow.
So that's pretty cool.
It's taking the frequency of your voice.
And you can add this to any filter or you can add this to any noise, will take the frequency of any
noise and boost the specific frequency that you want.
So I always boost the highs.
You do always want to take down the very low and low frequency because.
In the human voice, if you have this low end, it'll actually add just extra bass that doesn't need
to be in the recording, especially if someone plays your voice back on not so good speakers.
You ever get that rumbling noise when you're streaming a movie legally?
Not illegally, because I know that you pay for your movies like a good abiding citizen.
But when you're streaming a movie and you're hearing like, you know, there's a lot of sound design
in the movie and there's a lot more, and it doesn't sound good.
It's kind of a crackling, uncomfortable sound to not ever let that happen to your voice.
It's actually good to take out the low end of your voice.
And that actually creates space in the sound spectrum of your video for the music to take up that space.
So if I'm taking this away here, that means that there's all this frequency that's now free to be used
by sound design, by a musical track.
And let's say, if I don't take that away and I have a song that's taking up a lot of bass and it has
like a beat.
Right.
And it's taking up the lower end because it's all songs have.
Bass are.
Two tracks are going to be competing with each other.
My voice is going to be vibrating at that same tone, and then the music is going to be vibrating at
the same tone.
So with that said, it's always a good idea to take out the very low end.
I'm afraid of your voice over.
So now let's take a listen in.
But a little bit more of a documentary feel.
It sounds way better already.
The Voice is really coming to life and a good kind of way to think about it.
Or a good.
Oh, man, it's hard for me to find words today, man.
A good key.
A good thing to keep in mind is the higher you bring the highs, the more exciting and the more.
Dang, it is really hard for you to find words today, man.
The more you increase the high frequencies, the more energy the person's voice is going to have in,
the more presence it's going to have.
So if I bring this down, it's going to sound like I'm in the other room and it's really muffled.
Oh, here's how it looks at 50 Mill.
This is a great focal length for documentaries and short films.
And when I bring it up, but we really lose the feeling of the background.
And so this is a great place to start.